[Polkadot WIki Migration] Set up a RPC node (#32)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: infrastructure/general/setup-rpc.md

!!!warning
    Enabling remote access to your validator node shouldn't be necessary and isn't suggested, as it
    can often lead to security problems. Learn more about node security in [Secure Your Validator](todo:link).

## Set Up a Node

Setting up a Polkadot SDK-based node follows a straightforward process. By default, all nodes use port 9944 on localhost for the WebSocket connection. In this guide, you'll set up a Polkadot sync node on a Debian-based server (e.g., Ubuntu 22.04). You can either create a server with your preferred provider or set one up locally. Check out [Set up a Full Node](TODO: add path){target=\_blank} for detailed instructions on installation.

To make the node externally accessible as an archive or pruned RPC node, use the following commands:

For an externally accessible Polkadot archive RPC node:

```config

> polkadot --chain polkadot --name myrpc --state-pruning archive --blocks-pruning archive --rpc-max-connections 100 --rpc-cors all --rpc-methods Safe --rpc-port 9944

Reviewer: ```suggestion
polkadot --chain polkadot \
--name INSERT_YOUR_NODE_NAME \
--state-pruning archive \
--blocks-pruning archive \
--rpc-cors all \
--rpc-methods safe 
```

I just removed the few that were set to default values

```

For a Polkadot pruned RPC node:

```config

> polkadot --chain polkadot --name myrpc --state-pruning 1000 --blocks-pruning archive --rpc-max-connections 100 --rpc-cors all --rpc-methods Safe --rpc-port 9944

Reviewer: ```suggestion
polkadot --chain polkadot \
--name INSERT_YOUR_NODE_NAME \
--state-pruning 1000 \
--blocks-pruning archive \
--rpc-cors all \
--rpc-methods safe
```

An archive node has the entire history, or database, of the network. You can query it in various ways, such as looking for historical information regarding transfers, balance histories, and more advanced queries involving past events. An archive node requires a lot more disk space than a pruned node. As of April 2023, Polkadot disk usage was 160 GB for a pruned node and 1 TB for an archive node. Disk usage needs can be expected to increase over time. An archive node requires including the options `--state-pruning archive --blocks-pruning archive` in your startup settings.

## Secure the RPC Server

The node startup settings allow you to choose what to expose, how many connections to expose and which systems should be granted access through the RPC server.

> - You can limit the methods to use with `--rpc-methods`, an easy way to set this to a safe
> mode is `--rpc-methods Safe`
> - You can set your maximum connections through `--rpc-max-connections`, for example
> `--rpc-max-connections 100`
> - By default, localhost and Polkadot.js can access the RPC server. You can change this by setting `--rpc-cors`. To allow access from everywhere you can use `--rpc-cors all`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can limit the methods to use with `--rpc-methods`; an easy way to set this to a safe mode is `--rpc-methods safe`
- You can set your maximum connections through `--rpc-max-connections`, for example, `--rpc-max-connections 200`
- By default, localhost and Polkadot.js can access the RPC server. You can change this by setting `--rpc-cors`. To allow access from everywhere, you can use `--rpc-cors all`
```

100 is the default so just changed it to another value

```config
polkadot --chain polkadot --name myrpc --state-pruning archive --blocks-pruning archive --rpc-max-connections 100 --rpc-cors all --rpc-methods Safe --rpc-port 9944
```

Or for a Polkadot pruned RPC node:

```config
polkadot --chain polkadot --name myrpc --state-pruning 1000 --blocks-pruning archive --rpc-max-connections 100 --rpc-cors all --rpc-methods Safe --rpc-port 9944
```

The specified flag options are outlined in greater detail below.

### Archive Node vs. Pruned Node

A pruned node only keeps a limited number of finalized blocks of the network, not its full history.
Most frequently required actions can be completed with a pruned node, such as displaying account
balances, making transfers, setting up session keys, staking, etc. An archive node has the full
history (database) of the network. It can be queried in various ways, such as providing historical
information regarding transfers, balance histories, and more advanced queries involving past events.

An archive node requires a lot more disk space. At the start of April 2023, Polkadot disk usage was
160 GB for a pruned node and 1 TB for an archive node. This value will increase with time. For an

> archive node, you need the options `--state-pruning archive --blocks-pruning archive` in your

Reviewer 2: would be nice to say what the difference between state pruning and blocks pruning is here

---
title: Set up an RPC node
description: Instructions on setting up, securing, and maintaining an RPC node.
---

The RPC server (included in all Polkadot SDK node implementations) can be accessed over the WebSocket protocol, which can be used to
access the underlying network and/or validator node. By default, you can access your node's RPC
server from `localhost` (for example, to rotate keys or do other maintenance). To access it from
another server or an applications UI (such as [Polkadot-JS UI](https://polkadot.js.org/apps){target=_blank}) it is
recommended to enable access to the RPC node over an SSL connection and encrypt the connection
between the end user and the RPC server. This can be achieved by setting up a secure proxy. Many
browsers, such as Google Chrome, will block non-secure WS endpoints if they come from a different
origin.

!!!info

>     Enabling remote access to your validator node should not be necessary and is not suggested, as it

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Enabling remote access to your validator node shouldn't be necessary and isn't suggested, as it
```

    can often lead to security problems

## Set Up a Node

<!-- TODO: ref full node tut too -->

Setting up any Substrate-based node relies on a similar process. For example, by default, they will

> all share the same WebSocket connection at port 9944 on localhost. In this example, we'll set up a

Reviewer 3: True outside of informal tutorials. Please rewrite without 'we'

```

The specified flag options are outlined in greater detail below.

### Archive Node vs. Pruned Node

A pruned node only keeps a limited number of finalized blocks of the network, not its full history.
Most frequently required actions can be completed with a pruned node, such as displaying account
balances, making transfers, setting up session keys, staking, etc. An archive node has the full
history (database) of the network. It can be queried in various ways, such as providing historical
information regarding transfers, balance histories, and more advanced queries involving past events.

An archive node requires a lot more disk space. At the start of April 2023, Polkadot disk usage was
160 GB for a pruned node and 1 TB for an archive node. This value will increase with time. For an
archive node, you need the options `--state-pruning archive --blocks-pruning archive` in your
startup settings.

### Secure the RPC Server

The node startup settings allow you to choose _what_ to expose, _how many_ connections to expose
and from where access should be granted through the RPC server.

> _How many_: You can set your maximum connections through `--rpc-max-connections`, for example

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
_How many_ - You can set your maximum connections through `--rpc-max-connections`, for example
```

`--rpc-max-connections 100`

> _From where_: by default localhost and the Polkadot.js are allowed to access the RPC server; you can

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
_From where_ -  by default, localhost and the Polkadot.js can access the RPC server. You can
```

## Set Up a Node

Setting up a Polkadot SDK-based node follows a straightforward process. By default, all nodes use port 9944 on localhost for the WebSocket connection. In this guide, you'll set up a Polkadot sync node on a Debian-based server (e.g., Ubuntu 22.04). You can either create a server with your preferred provider or set one up locally. Check out [Set up a Full Node](TODO: add path){target=\_blank} for detailed instructions on installation.

To make the node externally accessible as an archive or pruned RPC node, use the following commands:

For an externally accessible Polkadot archive RPC node:

```config
polkadot --chain polkadot --name myrpc --state-pruning archive --blocks-pruning archive --rpc-max-connections 100 --rpc-cors all --rpc-methods Safe --rpc-port 9944
```

For a Polkadot pruned RPC node:

```config
polkadot --chain polkadot --name myrpc --state-pruning 1000 --blocks-pruning archive --rpc-max-connections 100 --rpc-cors all --rpc-methods Safe --rpc-port 9944
```

The options and flags will be explained in the following sections.

### Pruned Node vs. Archive Node

> A pruned node only keeps a limited number of finalized blocks of the network, not its full history. State and block pruning are two ways of removing old blocks from a system. State pruning removes the states of old blocks while preserving block headers, allowing you to query against headers and hashes but not key-value pairs from the state trie. Block pruning removes the block bodies of old blocks while retaining block headers, allowing you to query against block headers and hashes but not the block body. You can complete many frequently required actions with a pruned node, such as displaying account balances, making transfers, setting up session keys, and staking. 

Reviewer 4: I don't know the actual difference between state-pruning and block-pruning, so maybe we want to check with someone more experienced

Reviewer 4: This paragraph is strange. It seems like it says that state pruning and block pruning are different, but then it says that in both of them, you can query against headers and hashes

Reviewer 3: Discussed in Slack, all ok.
